---
layout: post
title: "Re-plan"
date: 2025-06-14
---

At some point in life, I believe every person has gone through this -  stopping, reflecting, and recalculating their path. This text is, at the same time, a manifesto, a starting point, and something new in yet another endeavor at such a moment - like that dash of innovation we bring each time we revisit something we’ve tried before.
A few weeks ago, I was rejected in a job selection process, and I felt all the negative emotions that come with it, especially because I had prepared a lot. But that’s not the main issue here. The point is, even though I prepared thoroughly, being rejected wasn’t surprising at all. I knew my chances were slim, but I applied anyway because I thought I could make up for the short timeframe with a lot of effort. I couldn’t.
Well, lessons learned and we move on. Focus on the leaning. The following topics are areas where I intend to invest my time and effort throughout the rest of this year to be better prepared for future opportunities.
While waiting for the results of the process I applied for, I often caught myself daydreaming about the future, imagining things already working out. That’s not a bad thing at all - in fact, I think this connection with what we want to be or have down the road helps in many ways, like motivation and purpose. The only downside comes when it takes up too much time. What I mean is that I don’t want to let this kind of daydreaming pull my focus away from what needs to be worked on, tested, and improved right here and now, to truly contribute to and strengthen the path toward my goals.
I strongly believe that productivity and good results come from clear goals and uninterrupted focus time. That means having a few hours in your day where all your attention is directed toward something you’ve set as a priority, whether it’s your studies, work, research, or whatever. Often, in my routine, I find myself with only shorter intervals, like 20 or 30 minutes, and I immediately dismiss the possibility of producing anything useful in that time. But 20 minutes is better than nothing. Right now, I’m someone who doesn’t have full control over my time - part of it has to be spent on certain activities regardless of my wishes - so I need to work with the opportunities I do have to study and prepare.
Writing things down It gives you the chance to think carefully about every part of your message, it conveys clarity, it serves as documentation or a record of the topic at hand, and it doesn’t demand an immediate response from the other person. But, at the same time, it’s something that’s relatively hard to do well. The idea of condensing thoughts into a logical sequence, a permanent record of your ideas and thoughts at a past moment, is indeed challenging. Among the many techniques out there to improve in this art, I believe one of the most effective is **practice**.
Sharpen the axe.
